Downloaded from
YTS.MX
(dramatic drum music)
Official YIFY movies site:
YTS.MX
- I was invited to a new show
at the Point Theater in Dublin
and it turned out to be one of
the most memorable nights
I've spent in the theater.
The force of the music. the
primal power of the dancing.
the beautiful symmetry of
so many bodies in motion.
I think anybody who was in the
audience that night realized
that they were watching
something unique and original.
The show of course was
Riverdance.
(dramatic instrumental music)
(audience applauds and cheers)
- Well I suppose Riverdance the
show
and then there was
Riverdance at the Eurovision
so 25 years ago we had
already had Riverdance
at the Eurovision which happened
in 1994
as a 6 minute and 40 second
piece that surprised people.
- [Both] Ladies and gentlemen.
Riverdance.
(joyful instrumental music)
- The interval act at
Eurovision is normally
something of cultural
value from that country.
they didn't know what it was.
they're normally quite boring
but when Riverdance came on the
stage
it was an electrifying moment.
(audience applauds and cheers)
- [Announcer] The audience
are on their feet.
- The audience as one jumped to
their feet
and for like a sustained
4 or 5 minutes applause
that in my experience of
the business was unique.
- At that moment I suppose
we knew that Irish dance
was never going to be the
same again and that maybe
Irish culture was never
going to be the same again.
(audience applauds and cheers)
- When we had the initial
sort of tidal wave response
that was the time that we all
thought.
wow Riverdance has really had an
effect.
we have a number one record.
we should make a show.
- [Moya] Bill Whelan.
John McColgan and myself
put our heads together round the
table
and we really worked out
what the shape. form.
concept of the two hour
piece was going to be.
- Riverdance itself and I think
actually
Maria will bring something
to it not only just with her
talent of her dancing but
also just her personality.
She has that kind of warmth
which you know
in a company context is really
important.
- [Moya] Sure.
(enthusiastic music)
- The theme was immigration
and the theme was multi-cultural
and the theme was changing.
interchanging ideas and
being to work with each other
so all of the dancers didn't
just sit in their own silo.
they interacted with each other
and the choreography was
mixed up with each other.
(enthusiastic music)
One year later we had a full
show on in the same venue.
- Please welcome Riverdance.
(lively music)
(audience applauds and cheers)
- What we're doing is
telling a lot of good will.
a lot of high energy and
we love what we're doing.
the best thing about our show
is that all of us would do it
for nothing without any audience
there
and I think when you have a show
like that
it will live for a while.
- It exploded.
We just dragged on.
held on by our knuckles
to the coat tails of Riverdance.
and traveled with it.
- So straight from there
we went to Hammersmith
which is a 6.000 seater in
London
and we played Hammersmith
for a record number of weeks.
Then we went off and
started our American tours
in Radio City Music Hall
and we hold the record there
for the longest run of any
single show.
(lively music)
- [Moya] These dance forms
were cultural dance forms
that were used to express
through history
life and death and
celebration and challenge.
It's a river of emotions.
pathos. sorrow. joy.
it brings us great joy.
it brings the audience great
joy.
So bringing all of that
into a Broadway/mainstream
entertainment stage is I think
what
caused the real excitement.
(dramatic music)
- This was the show that
announced to the world
that Ireland was a cultural
force
to be reckoned with in the
popular sense.
It made Irish dancing
sexy and it made it cool.
(lively music)
- [John] Irish dance.
or as they call it the
Riverdance
is now recognized all over the
world as a genuine art form
and it employs thousands of
people.
(lively music)
- I think we are so blessed
25 years later to be able to
experiment with this and
to produce this new show.
- My hope and desire is that
now with this new treatment
the show will be reinvigorated
and attractive to people
who have never seen it.
younger people who weren't
born when it started
and even more attractive topeople who have seen it before.
they'll also be blown away
so it's the next generation.
it's Riverdance: the Next
Generation.
(lively music)
(audience applauds and cheers)
♪ Hear my cry
♪ In my hungering search for you
♪
♪ Taste my breath on the wind ♪
♪ See the sky
♪ As it mirrors my colors
♪ Hints and whispers begin
(wistful music)
- [Man] Out of the dark we came.
Out of the night.
The first of many mornings
in this new place.
When the sun rolled back the
mist
we rose like a strong wave on
land.
Now we were the people of this
place.
(wistful music)
What burns through the rain and
mist?
What banishes dark?
What makes the children
straight and bright?
What makes the mountains sharp?
The sun is our Lord and Father.
Bright face at the gate of day.
Lifting our hearts we sing his
praise.
Dance in his healing rays.
(triumphant music)
(audience applauds and cheers)
(wistful music)
(audience applauds)
♪ Where the river foams
and surges to the sea ♪
♪ Silver figures rise to find me
♪
♪ Wise and as daring
♪ Following the heart's cry
♪ I am the deep pool
♪ I am the dark spring
♪ Warm with a mystery
♪ I may reveal to you
♪ In time key to everything is
love ♪
♪ Flow into a deep desire
♪ Passion and desire
♪ See the eagle rise
above the open plain ♪
♪ Golden in the morning
♪ Weaving and soaring
♪ Watchful and protecting
♪ I am your shelter
♪ I will enfold you
♪ Warm with a mystery
♪ I may reveal to you
♪ In time key to everything is
love ♪
♪ Flow into a deep desire
♪ Passion and desire
(audience applauds and cheers)
(delightful music)
(intense music)
(audience applauds and cheers)
- [Man] Cuchulain is dead.
Our great Cuchulain.
He was the sun of morning.
He was a fire at night.
He was a powerful story.
He was lightening in forest.
A sudden storm.
A short life.
(haunting music)
(audience applauds and cheers)
- [Man] Thunder and
lightning batter the rocks.
The winds howl and great
storms break on the forest.
Scatter the herds like grain.
Fire leaps from dark to dark.
Fear and anger leap to meet it.
We will not go down.
We will not be beaten down like
grain.
(lightening cracks)
(shoes tapping)
(audience applauds and cheers)
(sultry music)
(haunting music)
(sings in foreign language)
(audience applauds and cheers)
(hopeful music)
(joyful music)
(audience applauds)
(audience applauds and cheers)
♪ Hear my cry
♪ In my hungering search for you
♪
♪ Taste my breath on the wind ♪
♪ See the sky
♪ As it mirrors my colors
♪ Hints and whispers begin
♪ I am living to nourish
you. cherish you ♪
♪ I am pulsing the blood in your
veins ♪
♪ Feel the magic and power of
surrender ♪
♪ To life. Uisce Beatha ♪
♪ Every finger is touching.
searching ♪
♪ Until your secrets come out
♪ In the dance. as it endlessly
circles ♪
♪ I linger close to your mouth ♪
♪ I am living to nourish
you. cherish you ♪
♪ I am pulsing the blood in your
veins ♪
♪ Feel the magic and power of
surrender ♪
♪ To life. Uisce Beatha
(ethereal music)
(frantic music)
(joyful music)
(audience applauds and cheers)
- With the 25th Anniversary
production there
is a significant change
in terms of the lighting.
in terms of the set. in terms
of the content on the screen.
in terms of some of the
costumes.
in terms of the running order of
the show.
in terms of the casting of the
show.
And for everybody that
is part of Riverdance 25
there is absolutely an
understanding
and an opportunity and
also a responsibility
on each and every single one of
us to
make Riverdance be the
best it's ever been.
In the same way as
Manchester City or Liverpool
or any of these guys bring in
new players to help energize
and fuel that next generation.
the same way as the Lakers
or anybody out in America.
those professional sports teams.
that's the way we look at
ourselves.
we look at ourselves as a
professional sports team
trying to be the best team in
the world.
You would have went around
and caught on to Peter.
For the most part it's
practicing it
so much so that you can't get it
wrong.
And its making sure that
the communication is clear
between every single dancer
as to where they're moving.
when they're moving. whatthey're supposed to be thinking.
what they should be visualizing.
what they should be feeling on
stage
so that the audience feels
it in the auditorium.
where their toes are
supposed to be placed.
how high their legs come up.
how low their legs go down.
There's so many aspects to make
it as perfect as it can be.
- We've been Irish dance and
when we were four. five. six
so we kind of grew up trying to
be
this Riverdance style of dancer.
In terms of the troupe coming
together
and having to dance at exactly
the same speed every night.
that takes hours and hours of
rehearsals.
(shoes tapping)
- When it comes down to
it the sheer speed of tap.
it comes over years and years of
training.
(shouts)
Some people have been measured
up to 40 taps per second.
I know some of the solos
probably
range between 20 and 35 per
second.
I mean I've been dancing
for. what. 24 years now.
and even then I'm still
trying to get faster
and speed is one thing.
there's execution as well.
So sometimes you'll see
when you do go really fast
you lose your technique.
but it's the uniqueness
and the presentation of the
feet as well. at that speed.
that's really difficult.
Right now you're seeing in the
world
there's such a huge thing about
inclusion
and acceptance of
everyone for who they are.
whether it's race. religion.
sexuality.
and Riverdance is all about
the sharing of cultures.
(group cheers)
- Before the show starts
when we're warming up
the Irish boys come and jam
with us when we're tapping
and we all kind of like mesh
our stuff together. it's good.
Never thought I'd Irish
dance ever in my life but.
- It's nerve-wracking because
not only is it a new style
but you're also doing it next
to professional Irish dancers
who are world champions andthey're the best at what they do
so the pressure is on.
But saying that I absolutely
love it
and I'm loving to learn new
styles.
(shoes tapping)
- We are like a big family.
and the energy we're getting
on the stage is very
inspiring for dancing.
Not only with Irish.
we have different types ofdance and learn from each other.
and it's amazing.
- It has always been
gratifying to me to see how
Irish traditional musicians
and dancers in Riverdance
have embraced the fact
they they're in a show
where you have flamenco dancers
and where you have Russian
dancers
and jazz tappers and you have
that sort of coming together
of different forms which has a
respect
for its own form and a
curiosity about the other.
America has created an art form
with jazz
which combines something that
we do use in Riverdance too.
which is that invitation tomusicians to actually improvise.
(thoughtful music)
- These are called the uillean
pipes.
Uillean is the Irish word for
elbow.
So you pump the air from
the bellows into the bag
and then this here is called the
chanter.
And then here you have the
drones.
so the drones are kind
of like an accompaniment
and then you have the regulators
that you play with your wrist.
just to add something else into
the mix.
(haunting uillean music)
I love playing slow airs as a
piper.
Queen of Cuchulain especially
just always moves me.
the way Bill wrote the air.
it's just impossible not to feel
anything when you're playing it.
("Queen of Cuchulain")
- A couple came up to me one
night
after a performance in England
and said that listening to
the pipes air in Riverdance
had helped them to grieve for
their son.
who had died the previous year.
And for them to say that
and for the music to have
reached people in that way
was something that none of us
really ever expected. and
it was lovely to hear.
("Queen of Cuchulain")
So music as a non-verbal tool.
it's extraordinarily powerful
and it reaches into
parts of the human psyche
I think that we don't have
language for.
and where language fails music
steps in.
- [Man] No life is forever.
We found and fought here.
We loved and died here.
We have seen smoke of warclimb from our fields of grain.
A stain over the sun.
The crops wither.
The bones of hunger walk the
sunken roads
in the black rain of ruin.
Whole generations lift now to
depart.
The land has failed us.
The dark soldiers appear against
us.
In dance and song we gift
and mourn our children.
They carry us over the
ocean in dance and song.
(joyful music)
(audience applauds and cheers)
(weeping music)
♪ Now I will soon depart
♪ With an aching heart
♪ To a land that's far from here
♪
♪ There I will hope and yearn
♪ For a safe return ♪
♪ To the home I hold so dear
♪ Lift the wings that carry
me away from here and ♪
♪ Fill the sails that
break the line to home ♪
♪ But when I'm miles and
miles apart from you ♪
♪ I'm beside you when I
think of you. a Stróirín ♪
♪ And I'm with you as I
dream of you. a Stróirín ♪
♪ And this song will
bring me near to you ♪
♪ A Stróirín a Ghrá
(audience applauds and cheers)
(lively music)
(audience applauds)
(sorrowful music)
- [Man] Dawn and the ships are
leaving.
A lover's grief is lifting on
the tide.
and heart's too young
for sorrow torn asunder.
The cruel ocean's deep and dark
and wide.
(sorrowful music)
Tall and straight my mother
taught me.
This is how we dance.
Tall and straight my father
taught me.
This is how we dance.
Battering feet on the city
street.
In pools of light on street
corners.
The proud bright carnival of the
poor.
(shoes tapping)
(audience applauds and cheers)
(lively music)
(haunting music)
- [Man] Over the rooftops
the music calling.
The air familiar but not our
own.
Like something out of a
storybook.
Somebody dancing the memory of
snow.
(haunting music)
(audience applauds)
(joyful music)
(audience applauds and cheers)
- [Man] Cry of an infant.
Heartbeat of the world.
Storm against ship.
Heel against floor and wave upon
shore.
Heartbeat of the world.
Sigh of a lover.
Cry of a mother.
Heartbeat of the world.
Oh unstopped.
(mysterious music)
(audience applauds and cheers)
(triumphant music)
♪ Into the river that had been a
stream ♪
♪ There fell a tear
♪ A single tear
♪ The loveliest of all tears
♪ A thousand of tears had come
eon her ♪
♪ And she was stuck on dancing
♪ She was stuck on dancing
♪ And her muddied name was
♪ Mississippi Mississippi Anna
Livia ♪
♪ Riversippi Riversippi Anna
♪ River Liffey River Liffey Anna
Livia ♪
(frantic music)
♪ Mississippi Mississippi Anna
Livia ♪
♪ Riversippi Riversippi Anna
♪ River Liffey River Liffey Anna
Livia ♪
(frantic music)
♪ Amazon the Liffey and the
shimmer and the ripple ♪
♪ And the Volga and the Fergus
and the Tagus and the Thames ♪
♪ Uisce in the Shannon
and the Chico Colorado ♪
♪ And the Apalachicola
Chatthooche and the Seine ♪
♪ Pooling and a pouring and
a flooding and a flushing ♪
♪ And a pooling and a pouringand a flooding and a flushing ♪
♪ Riversippi Riversippi
Anna Livi Anna Livi ♪
♪ Shimmer in the Riverrun
♪ Anna Livia
(audience applauds and cheers)
(haunting music)
- [Man] And after all the
moon over city and forest
is everywhere the same.
In the old land it silvers
fields of grain
just as it does here.
The rivers everywhere run down
to the sea.
And the land everywhere
takes life from the river.
It is all a journey.
From one land to the next.
From one life to another.
A generation later. that
emigrant's child
stands for the first time on the
old land.
Memory rich in song.
The heart come home.
(haunting music)
(lively music)
(audience applauds and cheers)
(proud drum music)
(lively music)
(audience applauds and cheers)
(high energy music)
(shoes tapping)
(audience applauds and cheers)
(proud music)
(shoes tapping)
(joyful music)
(audience applauds and cheers)
(proud music)
(joyful music)
(audience applauds and cheers)